Teaching Tech Together is a group of volunteers working to improve inclusion & diversity in tech. We are organizing a two-day summit in June to bring together organizers of grassroots learn-to-code projects that focus on increasing the inclusion of people from under-represented intersections of gender, race, sexuality, ability, and class.

Vision:

In the past few years, there has been an explosion of grassroots organizations devoted to improving inclusion & diversity in the tech sector.  All have good intentions, but many are not aware of prior experience, or of other groups working in the area. There is tehrefore a need for (1) exposure of existing efforts; (2) resources to scale up best practices; and (3) connect organizations that need to be working with each other. 

This meeting in Boulder, Colorado on June 6-7, 2015 will bring together teachers and organizers of community-led initiatives to compare experiences and swap best practices.  Unlike other meetings, this one will focus on the nuts and bolts of starting and growing a grassroots organization in this sector - fundraising, non-profit governance, effective teaching techniques, curriculum development, and sustainable community building - so that there can be less reinventing of the same wheels and centralized documentation for future initiatives to build from.

Outcomes:

The meeting will combine facilitated conversations on specific topics, lightning talks, demos, and demonstrations of teaching strategies, as well as un-conference style, attendee-created sessions.  All sessions will be documented with notes and other media shared back to this site to act as an open & public repository of material for getting new projects started based on real-world experience and tangible evidence of successes.

By the end of the meeting, attendees will have gained experience in sharing out their strategies and outcomes, and in building skills to communicate their work to a larger audience. All will gain awareness of other initiatives, network with each other, and leave with actionable goals & ideas to bring back to their groups, future events, and class offerings.  

Agenda:

The full agenda will be determined collaboratively by a volunteer programming committee. A portion of each day will use an un-conference style so that all attendees can prioritize and create content based on what they feel needs to be actively worked on with their peers. Attendance is intentionally being kept low to maintain an intimate setting for serious discussions. If you’re interested in participating in the creation of programming & agenda design please get in touch.

Taking Part:

If you would like to attend please fill in this application form to tell us a bit about yourself.  Please let us know in your application if you need travel support.

Sponsorship:

We are grateful for sponsorship from the Arnold and Sloan Foundations, the Python Software Foundation, Mozilla, and GitHub, but are still hoping to bring in a bit more - we want to be sure the meeting is as diverse as possible and many of the people we'd like to invite are only going to be able to attend if their travel costs are subsidized. If you or your organization would like to sponsor this summit, or if you would like to help us with organization, logistics, or anything else, please email summit2015@t3summit.org.
