Revolutionary, outspoken, and dedicated, are all words that describe
the essence of Loretta H. Cheeks. Her devotion to advancing
technology, STEM K-12 outreach, and disability and women’s advocacy
has been the driving force behind her passion for pursuing a
PhD. Loretta is a full-time PhD graduate student as an Adobe
Foundation GEM Fellow at Arizona State University, Ira A. Fulton
School of Engineering in the Department of Computing, Informatics and
Decision Systems Engineering. Her research focuses on news frames of
conflict over dynamic complex problems and its’ migration path across
online social networks: current complex problem being water insecurity
in the Southwest region of the United States. This problem is grounded
in data mining, network theory and graph theory. Her advisor is
Professor Dr. Arunabha Sen. Prior to starting a PhD program, she
enjoyed a rich career as a principal engineer with roles as systems,
software and project lead. She has developed, deployed, and led
various teams within the communications, radio, avionics,
instrumentation & control and chemical industries for Fortune 500
corporations. Loretta was selected as the 2014 GEM Fellow of the Year,
an award that recognizes the significant contribution of a graduate
student.

The Strong TIES STEM Program applies an integrated approach to STEM
engagement for community- building and increasing interest in STEM
among youth and specifically targeting African American middle and
high school girls. The youth gains an understanding of how the Strong
TIES Phoenix, Arizona based STEM program integrates African traditions
like rhythm, fractals, call-and-response, and motion with STEM
education. Our youth are given a glimpse into how STEM and African
traditions interplay to cultivate principles applied throughout STEM
disciplines, such as collaboration, idea creation, interface
definition and team building. African traditions and principles are
brought to life through the use of computer science principles,
digital designs, and play. Lastly, our program applies experiential
learning for amplifying STEM principles. This integrated approach to
STEM learning bridges past, present and future techniques for engaging
African American girls.
