http://emilyhosoya.com

I have been involved with tech education both in New York City and in Colorado at the Loveland CreatorSpace. As a career changer into programming (from journalism), I have struggled to find teaching methods that have worked for my particular learning style. Through my own experience as a teacher's assistant in coding courses, I developed a passion and intuition for adapting to meet my various students' needs. I am extremely passionate about creating more tools and opportunities to advance underrepresented groups in the field of technology. I envision a future where I can easily build a technical team with at least 50% female programmers of varied backgrounds.

I recently reached out to Django Girls to give me the green light to begin organizing a local event here in Colorado. Living in Northern Colorado as a professional, I have seen a noticeable lack of diversity in the local tech community. I am involved with several groups, including Fort Collins' Girl Develop It and Women Who Code, and I am encouraging childhood friends and women I meet at groups unrelated to tech to consider learning to code. As someone who is female and beginning her career in tech, particularly in this region in the country, I am often discouraged by the lack of diversity and support, and I am sure others feel the same. With Django Girls, I hope to use the event as a catalyst to strengthening and growing the Colorado tech community of women.

I am a first generation United States citizen - my mother is from Vietnam and my father from Japan. I was born, raised and attended college in Fort Collins, a small city (or large town, if you will) where the percentage of ethnic minorities is only about 20 percent. I definitely felt like an outsider among my peers in school, where I was often the only person of color, and the only person with a non-American family, in my classes. That difficulty in identifying with most of my peers, along with my shyness, led me to move to New York after college, where I could find role models and mentors of nearly every color and background. Living in the city was a huge growing period for me, and I finally became comfortable in my skin and embraced the fact I am not white. Due to family obligations, I have returned to Fort Collins and am eager to mentor other girls, girls of color, and anyone of color, in my community.
