www.brittneyoberfeld.com
@boberfeld

For the past 2 years I have lead many 1-day tech workshops for girls ages 8-13 with Girls Learning Code. I have also mentored at dozens of programs at Kids/Girls Learning Code that included kids from various financial situations and cultural backgrounds. More recently, I am completing a 12-week game makers program for girls - multiple participants had severe cases of ADHD.  I worked alongside Kat Barrett (the youth program lead) to find creative ways to work with the girls and integrate them into the program in a positive and inclusive manner. On top of that, we really focused on getting all the girls to work on resourcefulness and confidence in their abilities. I hope to get more insight on how others are tackling these issues - on top of teaching tech! 

The program that I volunteer for (Ladies Learning Code) main focus is to get more women open and engaged with technology. I first learned to code through their program, and now I mentor at it. I feel really proud and excited to be a part of the change that is happening.  I am also a part of Dames Making Games in Toronto. This is a not-for-profit organization that provides an inclusive community for everybody to make and play games. They highlight the importance of diversity & its meaningful impact on the broad range of disciplines related to games. They run a wide range of programs and events for women, non-binary, gender nonconforming, trans and queer folks interested in games. I am a part of their events committee; I help run many events throughout the year including monthly socials, weekend-long game jams & evening workshops.

My focus lies heavily in game development and I have been primarily leading & volunteering at game-based programs for girls ages 8-13. I personally see the lack of women in games at the moment and I want to be a part of the solution for upcoming generations to not experience that in the games industry. I want young girls (and any minority that doesn't associate with the "typical" game developer model) to have strong, positive mentors to look up to and in order to get there, we need to get those women up there! 
