Kalimah Priforce is making "hackathon" a household word in every community as Headmaster and CEO of Qeyno Labs - a leader in harnessing the STEM interests of high potential youth from low-opportunity settings through high profile, mindfully inclusive hackathons that teach entrepreneurship, rapid prototype engineering, and design thinking. From providing Oakland with its first Startup Weekend to launching hackathons for Prince, Essence, and the White House's "My Brothers Keeper", hackathons powered by Qeyno are bringing tomorrow's talent into today's tech and revolutionizing education innovation for an economy that truly lives up to Dr. King's dream. He has been featured on the cover of USA Today, MSNBC, Essence Magazine, Dreamforce, KQED, NPR, PBS Newshour, Black Enterprise, CNN, Time.com, and was recognized by the White House as a Champion of Change.  Kalimah is a 2013 Echoing Green fellow, a 2014 StartingBloc Fellow, a College Board Professional Fellow, Yes We Code's first tech inclusion fellow, and a Hive Global Leader.

"Qeyno Labs is the leading provider of high profile, mindfully inclusive hackathon experiences for young trailblazers and their mentors. Qeyno's Hackathon Academy is made possible by larger scale organizations and companies focused on guiding high potential youth in low opportunity settings into STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) college and career pathways. Using its unique model, Qeyno boldly leads the way in playful learning experiences that make ""hackathon"" a household word in every home and is committed to lifting innovation in every community.

Hackathons gather together technologists (coders), artists (designers), and problem solvers (innovators) to brainstorm, design and build a web or mobile app that can change the world, create a business, or both!  Qeyno’s mission is to transform children's lives and give them the power to transform their worlds through social innovation, education, and technology."

"At eight years old, Kalimah Priforce held a successful hunger strike against his Brooklyn group home to add more books to its library, which drew the attention of a community of Buddhist monks and nuns who privately tutored him until the age of 14.

He left both the group home and the Buddhist order as a lost teenager, but in Harlem, NY, legendary educator Dr. Lorraine Monroe discovered and mentored his potential to be a leader and social innovator. By 16, Kalimah started his first computer tech company that primarily served low-income neighborhoods and the elderly. In October of 2000, his younger brother was shot and killed behind their childhood elementary school, inspiring Kalimah to form a lifelong commitment to transforming children's lives towards mindfulness of their path and purpose."
